(upbeat music)
Hello, club fish members.
I hope you are all well, as indeed we are.
Although I must say we are a little bit tired
because at the moment we are right in the middle of our tour.
We've done quite a lot of dates in the UK, in Ireland.
We've got some more UK dates coming up at time of recording
and then we go off to Australia and New Zealand.
But in the middle of all that,
we found a little bit of time to go to Gothenburg.
And while we were there,
we were asked to do a nighttime late night gig.
Now, we didn't really know what to expect.
Anna actually didn't make it at all
'cause she had to go back to the UK.
But me, Dan, and Andy went to this nightclub
as it turned out.
And what we decided to do was to do a little quiz
about things that we'd said
on No Such Things as a Fish in the first year.
So you can play along at home.
One thing to say is that it does sound
like we're doing this in front of no one at all
'cause there were no audience mics.
But I can assure you there were at least a couple
of dozen of people watching this,
as well as the many more dozens of people
who were just enjoying their night in the nightclub,
completely unaware that we were doing this show at all.
Anyway, I really hope you enjoy it.
We'll be back in a couple of weeks
with another bit of material,
maybe another episode of Drop As A Line.
I hope we'll be recording one of those soon.
But in the meantime, all that's left to say
is on with the bonus material.
(upbeat music)
(speaking in foreign language)
- Well, this is fucking weird.
We're very excited to be here.
I just had a curiosity.
So we're a UK podcast called No Such Things as a Fish.
Has anyone in this vicinity heard it before?
Yes, some people have heard it.
Who here in the vicinity has not heard it before?
- Oh wow, quite a few.
- 50/50.
- That's quite a few.
- That's interesting, okay.
- Okay, so we're from the UK
and we basically make a podcast
where we talk about the most interesting facts
that we've found over the last seven days.
It's not like a cool fact that it's useful
for finance and stuff like that.
It's stuff where it can be interesting
and funny at the same time.
James, you got one about a thing you came up with.
- Yeah, I certainly don't use this for financial advice.
- Right. - For sure, don't do that.
I like to kind of work out my own facts.
And one that I realized recently is
that they've recently found out
that there is microplastics in human semen.
It's very, very small amounts, so don't worry.
But I worked out that if you wanted to make a Lego brick
with that plastic,
you would have to ejaculate 100 billion times.
- Yeah, and how many in are you?
(laughing)
- Well, we all had to have a COVID hobby, didn't we?
- Yeah.
- We always have quite a nerdy crowd in our shows.
Is anyone here in academia does academic stuff?
Is anyone from the University of Gothenburg?
- One. - Okay.
- Yes, one. - Right.
We have a bone to pick with you.
- Oh, yeah.
- Because this is the second time
that we've been in Gothenburg.
- Yeah. - And the first time,
some people stole our blood.
- Oh, yeah.
We were here six years ago,
and we were part of an experiment at the university.
The university emailed us saying,
we'd like to do an experiment on you
where we take your blood
and we can tell you what you had for breakfast.
- I think as we already knew what we had for breakfast.
- Well, that's true, but they didn't.
(laughing)
So we all went along to the university buildings.
There was a science lab they had there.
Took our blood.
We've never heard from them again.
We have no idea.
- Our blood samples are in your city, and...
- There are people.
Maybe there are clones of us around Gothenburg right now.
- Wouldn't that be amazing if right now
your kids were introduced onto stage?
This is an intervention.
- What a reveal.
- That would be amazing.
- My theory is that we all have such unusual breakfasts
that they couldn't work it out
and they were too embarrassed to tell us.
- Yeah.
- None of these people had any pickled fish
for their breakfast.
Sorry, sorry, it was a lazy duck.
(laughing)
I actually, so I'm running on NoSleep for about 20,
how long has it been now?
Over 24 hours.
- Yeah, yeah.
- I was at a party last night in London.
Has anyone ever done this?
I decided at 2 a.m. when I was still partying,
I was like, I'll just go to the airport now
for my 9 a.m. flight, otherwise I might miss it.
And I couldn't fall asleep at the airport.
So I've had like 11 breakfasts today.
(laughing)
If they took my sample right now,
they would be like, you should be dead.
- You're 98% breakfast.
- Yeah, exactly, yeah.
It's wild.
- Okay, so what are we gonna do today, Dan?
- Well, okay, so we are,
the reason we're over here is
we're currently on a 10 year celebration tour.
We are 10 years into our podcast life.
It's been really amazing.
We're currently on tour in the UK.
- Said I've been missing for 10 years.
- You have? - Have you?
- Really?
You're a 10 year old?
- You as well.
- That's off.
- Okay, cool.
- We have a massive archive of all the facts.
We thought we'd go into the archive
and pick out some of our favorite facts to tell you.
- Maybe some from the first ever year of fish.
- That's nice.
- We've got every fact that we mentioned
in the first year of fish, every headline.
- Amazing.
- And let's see if you remember any of them.
Okay, so.
- The two people who've been listening for 10 years,
you're in this game as well.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
(laughing)
- Well, the other one,
some of you might be able to guess some of them.
Like, here's an example of one that we said that year.
The Slovakian and Slovenian embassies in Washington
meet once a month to exchange rungly-addressed mail.
- Yes.
- Oh, yeah.
- That's a great fact.
Do you remember that one?
- Yeah, yeah.
There's a similar fact, which is that
the actors, Carrie Grant and Clark Gable
used to meet up after Christmas
and exchange gifts that had CG printed on it.
There's like, I hate this towel.
No, actually, I like that towel.
Cool, I'll get the belt buckle and they would do swaps.
- Exactly.
- It's with the tennis player, Andy Murray, don't you, Andy?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
(laughing)
- Oh my God.
- Oh no.
(laughing)
Andy is called Andrew Hunter Murray,
but we call him Andy Murray and--
- As everyone else did until I was 17.
- Yeah, right.
- And then this tennis guy started out.
- And then the tennis player came along.
- Well, he's retired now, so maybe he could reclaim it.
- I would hope so.
- That's true.
- He's had a good term.
(laughing)
And now it's time.
- So when we started our podcast,
it's really exciting when you start a podcast, by the way.
I don't know if there's any podcasters out here,
but you start seeing numbers come in
and you start having people message you about it.
And it was really exciting for us
and we didn't know where it was going.
And we got offered a gig in Belgium
and we'd never done an international gig before
and it was incredibly exciting.
So we get there and there's all this media attention
about our podcast.
And we're like, wow, we must have just a big fan base here
and they wanted us on TV, they wanted us on radio.
And we quickly discovered when we got there,
the headlines were Wimbledon Tennis Champion,
Andy Murray comes to do nerdy podcast in Belgium.
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- Whoa, have we got another?
- Okay, here's a question.
So this is to see what you remember.
We did a fact in the first year
that according to the government of the Czech Republic,
there are three symbols of Easter in Czechia.
Can you guess what those three symbols of Easter
- Yes.
- In Czechia are?
- One of them is lambs.
- Easter lambs.
- Which is kind of the same around the world, right?
Yeah, yeah.
- Do you want to have a crack?
- Can you think of rabbits?
- No, think of something for Easter
that you might give your kids, for instance.
- Chocolate.
- Yeah, Easter eggs.
- Easter eggs, sorry.
- But the third one is a little bit more unusual.
- I think I remember it.
- Yeah?
- Is it whipping?
Sorry, no, I'm not.
- You'd better hope this is right.
Otherwise that's the weirdest thing that anyone's ever guessed.
- Is it whipping?
- Yeah, yeah.
- The Easter whip.
- But what does it mean?
Why would you whip someone?
Like, what was the deal there?
Can you remember?
- Oh, no.
I have no idea.
- Well, it was a tradition on Easter Monday
that lads would whip young maids to be cheerful, it says here.
Don't know what that means.
- Did it work?
Were there controlled trials?
- I think it's more like, you know,
chasing each other around and stuff like that.
- Okay.
- Which is kind of cool.
In Lancashire, where I come from, which is in England,
we used to have a thing.
Now, this was a hundred years before I was born.
- Sure.
- There was a way that boys and girls would meet each other.
It was called promenading.
And what would happen is you would get on a street
and all the girls would stand on one of the pavements
and all the boys would stand on the other pavement
and they would just stand there in silence
for like 15 minutes.
And all you'd be looking for is someone to smile at you
or you wouldn't say anything.
- To acknowledge you at all.
- Yeah, you're just looking for a little bit of eye contact
or whatever.
And then everyone went home.
And then you just had to stay at home.
And then if you'd got like a Tinder match kind of thing,
then they would leave you some flowers
outside your front door and you would know that you got,
and then you would do the same to them.
And if it was a match, then you would go on a date.
- That's very nice.
- It's amazing that we had any children at all.
(laughing)
- That's so cool.
- Okay, here's the thing.
Here's a question for you.
Again, one of our early facts.
One of the last things that NASA had to do
before launching space shuttles was what?
- Make sure the astronauts know where their keys are.
- Oh yeah.
- Because you know, it's like when you get back
from a holiday and you're like,
"Where are the keys?"
You know, that.
- Oh, you weren't thinking keys for the spaceship.
- No, sorry, no, no, no, but you do need those too.
- Yeah, no, it's not that.
We've met some astronauts today, haven't we?
- We met some astronauts.
- There was Swedish astronauts.
- The book festival has the first two Swedish astronauts.
Very exciting.
They're upstairs now.
Well, there are two guys in spacesuits upstairs.
- I assume I don't think that's them.
- Is it not?
- No, because they had a Star Trek thing on there.
- Yes, and I thought that was us.
The other guy had Battlestar Galactica on his arm.
I thought, "Come on."
- It was all looking a bit dodgy.
Or is that your space program?
(laughing)
I don't want to be offensive, but it was a bit odd.
I mean, they look cool as far as they look really cool.
I really wanted to ask them.
There's a thing that apparently
when astronauts come down to Earth,
they forget about gravity.
Like, gravity's like a forgotten concept to them.
So they'll be sort of like in the kitchen
and they'll have like a drink.
They'll be like, "So anyway, I'm like,"
and they think it's gonna hang there in the air.
And so apparently when astronauts come back,
put away your crockery
'cause they just smash everything up.
- Apparently it's impossible to play guitar
if you're in space to begin with.
You kind of have to teach yourself
'cause you're holding it
and you've got your fingers in the frets.
And because your hands don't really weigh anything,
you can't put them in the right position.
- Oh, wow.
- You just keep missing the frets all the time.
That's how Phil says that.
- Yeah, right.
So we covered ages ago that when you're in space,
you are floating.
Obviously your limbs are floating,
your head is floating.
Also, your tongue is floating in your mouth.
- Oh, yeah.
- And your food in your stomach
is floating inside you.
- Oh, my God.
- So it's a really strange feeling
of not being able to, you know.
- Yeah.
- I met, so James, you just mentioned Chris Hadfield.
Do you guys remember that he was the astronaut
who played David Bowie in space?
- Good thing here as well.
Okay, yeah.
I met him once, and I had a bone to pick with him,
which is always exciting to have beef with an astronaut.
I was on a date once in London,
and I was doing really well, I thought, on the date.
It was going really well.
And then the girl who was on the date, her phone pinged.
- Oh, he started the web page.
- Yeah, the web page happened.
Her phone pinged, and she went,
"Oh, my God, the man I love just messaged me."
- Oh.
- Which is a horrible thing to hear on a date.
- That's right.
- Like, that's no good.
And I was like, "Oh, that's great."
And she showed me the email,
and it was from Chris Hadfield, the astronaut,
who had emailed her from space.
He was in the International Space Station.
- Yeah.
- And there is nothing you can say.
Like, I had a few anecdotes.
I was gonna bust that later in the day,
where I once shared a melted cheese sandwich
with Paul McCartney.
Nothing, 'cause nothing I could say
would top even Chris Hadfield being like,
"Hey, just had an apple in space."
- No, yeah.
(laughing)
Sorry, you shared a cheese sandwich with Paul McCartney.
- Thank you, Andy.
Yes.
- That is a good, is it a good story?
- I was in his windmill with him, and--
- It's a good story.
(laughing)
You were in his windmill?
- He has a windmill out on the countryside,
and we were, he was--
- In Britain?
- In, sorry, in Britain, yeah, yeah.
And he was recording some bongos
for a song that I was a part of.
It's really weird when you,
Beatles, I have the best band in the world to me,
and I can understand why McCartney
keeps putting out such shit music,
because when you're in his presence,
like when I heard the bongos being played by McCartney,
I was like, "This is the best fucking thing
"since the Beatles that he's done.
"This is insane."
Anyway, just by the way,
the date ended with this, with my date,
with an ISS, an international space station,
app on her phone going,
"It's going overhead right now.
"Let's go outside and wave."
So I just had to stand there waving at Chris Hadfield.
It was cloudy, we couldn't even fucking see it.
(laughing)
And we're doing that.
So I met him years later on stage,
and I went up to him and I said,
"Chris, you cock-blocked me from outer space, mate.
"That's what you did."
And I was like, it was, it ruined the date.
And he said, "The coolest thing I've ever heard in my life."
He went, "Oh man, I'm so sorry.
"I'm so sorry."
- I'll snog you now, Dad, please.
(laughing)
- No, he went, "I don't know what to say.
"I'm a fucking astronaut."
And I was, "Ah, wow."
- Stunning.
- Yeah.
- Okay. - So anyway, yeah.
So what do you think NASA had to do?
- Oh, sorry, yes, quiz question.
So what was the last thing NASA had to do?
- It's something about the launch, isn't it?
It's something they have to clear the area, or?
- They have to clear the area,
but why do they have to clear the area?
What is there in the area?
- Pigs. - Pigs and alligators.
- There are pigs and alligators,
I'll admit, around Cape Canaveral,
but really, if there's an alligator near your rocket,
that's not gonna cause you too many problems.
- Owls. - Oh, really?
- They're bats.
- Where did you get owls from?
- 'Cause I'm part of our show, and we've done this fact.
(laughing)
- Because you're-- - Are there owls?
- No, no, there are not owls,
but there are birds there.
- Right.
- And the birds do get in the way,
and so what the birds not like, owls, okay?
So they put huge inflatable owls--
- Really?
- Next to the space shuttle,
and then that scares away the birds,
and the last thing they do before the shuttle goes up,
is remove the inflatable owls.
- I mean, it's clever, but it's also stupid,
because if you had a bit of imagination,
you would just paint the space shuttle
to look like a massive owl.
- Yes. - Oh, yeah.
- Completely clear the area,
and also, when it goes, amazing.
- Yeah. - Like, amazing.
Put a whistle on the side, so it goes,
"Woo-hoo, woo-hoo, woo-hoo!"
- Do you know if you call Cape Canaveral,
so the dialing code, if you're calling Cape Canaveral
where they launch the rockets.
In England, it's +44.
In Cape Canaveral, it's 3, 2, 1.
- Lovely. - Isn't that awesome?
- So good. - Yeah, that's a good one.
- Okay, here's another one.
I talked in about probably our 30th episode,
about a computer game that had been invented,
and there was something very unusual
about playing this computer game.
Can you guess what it was?
- You don't play it with your hands, you play it with--
- With? - No, I don't like what it's saying.
- I found that.
- No, you don't play it with your penis, though.
- Thank you. Okay.
Okay. Is it something about the game itself?
- Yes, it is. - All right.
It's very big. It's very small.
- Oh, go for big. - It's very big.
- But then-- - It's a huge game.
- It's a huge game, but huge in what way?
- Just there's loads of areas you can go.
Isn't it massive? You can run around for--
Like, you know, the huge computer games.
You get this-- - Yeah, yeah.
No, I know what you mean. It's not like that.
- Okay. - It's huge in a different sense.
- Okay. - Think of all the different dimensions
that it could be huge.
- The fourth dimension, time?
- Time itself, Andrew. - Very nice.
- Time itself. - Right.
- They invented a computer game.
It was actually an art project, but it did exist.
A computer game was invented that takes more than a lifetime
to complete. - Oh, is this the Terry Pratchett game?
- No, that's a fake one. - Oh, right.
- Didn't he invent a game called Journey to Alpha Centauri?
- Yeah, yeah. And you have to leave your computer
on for four years, and at the end of it,
it just says, "Welcome to Alpha Centauri. Now go home."
- I think that's the-- - Oh, yeah.
- Yeah, I think so. - But this is a real one.
- So this is a real one, and the idea was,
they wanted to look at what happens
with your digital footprint after you die.
And the idea was that you would play this computer game
and you would get to level 273,
and then you would pass it down to your children
who would then complete it. - Wow.
- Or even pass it on to their children who would complete it.
And it's like, if you own things, if you own digital stuff,
is it the kind of thing you can pass down through generations?
- Did they make it good to play?
- No, it was really boring. - Okay.
- So I don't think anyone would ever want to play it.
It was more of a thought experiment.
- I see. Okay, that's very cool. - Yeah?
- Oh, I love it. - Very cool, yeah.
- You want to fancy that one? - Yeah.
- Give us another one. - Okay.
Nobody knows why we blank.
- I think I know this one. - Go for it.
- Is it kiss? - It is kiss.
- Nobody knows why we kiss. - There's no accepted theory
about why humans kiss each other that applies in all societies.
- Yeah, yeah. - As in it's all constructed, it's not...
- And like, they kind of think that maybe not everyone did kiss,
and then it kind of came over from India,
and because no one was writing about it and stuff like that.
But then other people think, well, maybe it happened even before we became humans,
and it was actually mothers chewing up food and giving it to their children,
and that's how it came. - Right.
- Okay, well, let's not think about that too much.
What did we do before?
Was it like, was it more like, you know, when Nala and Simba were making out
and they just rubbed their heads against each other, like that kind of thing?
- It was handshakes. It was exclusively handshakes. - Yeah.
- Until what century? About the 19th century. - And still that in the UK?
- Oh, yeah, yeah. - We don't kiss in the UK.
- In South London? - Right.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's what we do. - In 2003, three people in Mexico died of...
- I can only think of very lazy stereotypes. - Well, let's go for some lazy stereotypes.
- I don't know. - Three, but only three, so rare.
- Only three, so it's very rare.
- What could you do? - This was one of the things I do,
which is I like to go through massive long lists of data and just find funny...
- Oh, yeah. Acne. - He's right.
- Is it? - It's acne. - Very nice.
- Three people died of acne. - Three people died of acne.
And we don't know why they died of acne.
It's just like literally a list of lots of different ways that people died.
And they must have... Maybe they take the wrong box.
- Oh, yeah. - You don't know.
I'll give you another one. I just got so many to get through.
- We've not got much time left, I don't think. - We've got like five minutes.
- Okay, let's see how many we can get. - Yeah.
According to Dr. Hans Ulrich, something never happened.
- You know this, Dan, I reckon. - Is this... No, this is one of Dan's,
but it might be... Is this the Middle Ages?
- Middle Ages never happened. - This is an amazing...
- This is the Phantom Time Hypothesis. - Yeah.
It believes that like 600 years of our history just were made up.
And later historians are just having a joke.
Everyone agreed in about 500 AD.
Should we just say it's 1100 AD?
And that's why we don't know anything that happened in that time.
- Yeah. - It's a good theory.
It's a great theory. I don't think it's real, but I think it's a great thing.
I think that was the first ever really dubious fact that you ever said on the show.
- Yeah. - And it's kind of set up your entire life since then.
Yeah, we invited a really amazing historian called Greg Jenner onto the show,
and that was the question I asked him.
And I don't think I'll ever forget the confuse there he gave it to me.
In 2013, six people in the US named their child.
I think... I know that... Isn't this... They call it mushroom?
- Mushroom. - Mushroom, yes.
The first ever sandwich we know about contained bread, I'm going to say.
- Yeah. - Apart from bread.
God, we did a load on sandwiches.
I got married in the room where the sandwich was invented.
- Oh, yeah. - Oh, my God.
- Thank you very much. - Oh, yeah.
The guy officiating the wedding claimed, "I haven't checked it."
It's one of those that we in the business call too good to check.
- Yeah. - Just accepted and move on.
He also said, "So, are you actually going to order a sandwich?"
"Can I... The deli's got a shot now, buddy."
"I didn't get married in a subway."
- Okay, sorry. What... First sandwich? - First sandwich.
We know about contained.
So, the one that you're talking about with the Earl of Sandwich.
- Yeah. - Supposedly named after the Earl of Sandwich.
I think that was a ham sandwich because he was...
Oh, it was beef, actually. It was beef sandwich.
- Yes. - Because he was playing poker.
And he wanted to eat something while he was playing poker.
But we found a much, much older one. In fact, Anna did.
- And... - It's wine, is it?
- It contained wine, yes. - Very nice.
It was like a wrap and it had wine and it had raisins and stuff like that.
- That's delicious. - Okay, so...
The first watt cost as much as a car.
- Oh. - And it's not cars.
The first car cost as much as a car, which is true.
- It's something more surprising. - Uh-huh.
Oh, I think this was one of yours, Andy.
- Go on. - Sorry, I'm getting major flashbacks to the facts we've done.
- Is it contact lenses? - Yes, it is.
And they were hard... Well, all contact lenses used to be hard.
And they were so... They were sort of £4,000.
I'm sorry, I don't know the exchange rate well enough.
- £70,000 crowns? Should we say that? - Wow.
- I don't know if that's the right rate. - Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- It would be more than that. Way more than that. Anyway. - Wow.
My favourite car fact that I've ever read is that in 1895,
the only two cars in Ohio crashed into each other.
How? How the fuck did that happen?
I always imagine, what did they say when they got out of the car as well?
"You came out of nowhere!" Like, what?
What was the scenario? Why do we not know that?
- I love that. Yeah, good. - And how's the time looking, Dan?
We've got to wrap up. We've got one more minute, so give us one more...
Okay, during his 27-year rule,
Pope John Paul II took...
- 100 ski vacations. - Correct.
- Actually, he took over 100 skiing and mountain climbing holidays. - That's very good.
- Half a point, okay. - Half right, half right.
He was obsessed with it, right?
He used to... Kind of like how the Beatles used to have to, like,
go out with fake mustaches and stuff.
Pope John Paul II, yeah, used to, like, leave to go to the chalet
with, like, a fake mustache and he had newspapers where you'd cut the holes in.
- Stop it, Dan! - How many of us would recognise the Pope
if he was completely dressed not as the Pope?
- I think not one enough. - Most of it is the vestment.
That's why he got it wrong. He still dresses the Pope when he wore a mustache.
- I don't know what he was thinking. - Oh, I get this.
- It's a good fact to end on, I think. I think that's flawless. - Yeah, why don't we wrap up?
Well, we're going to go party and get drunk in your beautiful, beautiful city.
Thank you so much for indulging us with that.
- Thank you guys. - And yeah, we'll hopefully see you again sometime.
Thanks so much, everyone. Bye!
[music]
(upbeat music)
[BLANK_AUDIO]